hello it's Ruby and today I'm going to
be telling you the 138 books which I
read in 2018 so I keep all of my books
logged in this Matilda notebook and I
have been documenting the books that I
read since January 2014 so I've got a
good log of every book that I've read
since then and I really like keeping
them all in one place because it means I
can refer back and I can have a look
over books that I've read if I'm
thinking of recommending books for the
whole of last year I used Goodreads as
well so all of my books are documented
on Goodreads but on Goodreads it comes
out that I've read 107 books I believe
because um I include short stories as
individual books in this journal I'm
literally just going to go through and
read these two because are so many and I
don't have the books because some of
them are on Kindle some of them are
library books and then at the end I'm
just going to tell you the top five
books that I read this year so I'm gonna
go through the books first and then I'm
gonna come back to the short stories
Matilda by Roald Dahl maximum security
by Robert Munsch and more goldfish boy
by Lisa Thompson Moby Dick by Herman
Melville
Xena green by Vanessa Curtis what
happened to my sister by Elizabeth flock
ancient hurt by Radwin Nassau famous
lost was by Katie Allen de philosophy of
religion by John heck the blood of the
Lamb by Peter DeVry the maids by Georgia
named John Donne by Stevie Davies which
is from the collection writers in their
works and it basically provides a
critical account of a poet or an author
pronoun by other Adam play see the
memoirs of Hillary Clinton and that's
how hard choices memoirs I think it's
the second set of memoirs we need to
talk about kevin by lionel shriven
thirteen minutes by Sarah piss breath
qui clock by Sartre The Secret Life of
Bees by soon monk Kidd from Belson to
Buckingham Palace by Poole Oppenheimer
spot the difference by Juno Dawson in
therapy by Suzy or back The Magician's
Nephew by CS Lewis the clock ropes
borrowed by Catherine wood fine circles
of hell by Dante
finding perfect by Allie Swartz the
smell of other people's houses if on a
winter's night a traveler by Italo
Calvino counting by sevens by Holly got
back Sloane the conservationist by
Nadine Gordimer before I formed what I
was by Microsoft
goodbye mallory towers by Pamela Cox Let
The Right One In wave me goodbye the
Kings general by doffing do Maria Enid
Blyton by Ginny and baddest rock which
is an account of Enoch lightens life by
her daughter note by Elie Wiesel
miracles from heaven by Christy beam
Tender is the night by a scott
Fitzgerald's everything everything by
nicole Hyun along runway by Sebastian
Barry lights by Jay Asha the youngest
garland fifth by Angela Brazil Massey's
summer collection by Lucy Harrison la
casa de Bernardo at arrow twice back
birdsong by Sebastian Faulks Titanic
survivor by violet Jessop make your bed
quarantine by Jim Crais runs on run by
katharine McPhee Elle I think Paradise
Lost by John Milton Frankenstein by Mary
Shelley dial alpha loser by Lucy
Harrison the bridge of San Liu array
Northern Lights by Philip Pullman wall
jumpers by Peter Scheider rethinking
life and death by Peter Singham the
grass is singing by Doris Lessing the
uncommon is Charles of green hedges by
Imogen Smallwood and taken a bias of
place blind spirit by Noel Coward the
chimes by Charles Dickens Allegiant by
Veronica Roth the Martian hot milk
shell-shocked in France 1914 to 1918 by
Charles as Myers the seven Habits of
Highly Effective teens the art of being
normal a little princess the myth of
Mars and Venus by Deborah Cameron the
memoirs of Sherlock Holmes Mars fellow
in the real wild by Francisco axe stalk
Gregory and the grim buckle by Melanie
Schubert the Picture of Dorian Gray by
Oscar Wilde bullies like me by Lindy's
art cat's eye by Margaret Atwood out of
my mind
Allen elephant in the real world master
Humphreys clock by Charles Dickens
speechless by Hannah Harrington
philosophical investigations by Ludwig
Wittgenstein
and religious practices by Sigmund Freud
interview with the vampire by Anne Rice
Trump's Christmas Carol by what T
Dickens positive and memoir by Pedro the
child the books built by Francis Buffett
torn by cat Clark the live tree by
Francis Hardinge when God was a rabbit
by Sarah women the little book of her
gabbai my quaking the like Jo by Lisa
Thompson so that one of the books that I
read this year and now I'm going to go
through and just tell you the short
stories that I read
so the first collection of short stories
was by James Joyce and it was part of
his collection Dubliners so the book the
short stories in that were the sisters
and encounter Arabi Aveline after the
race to Gordon's
the boarding house a little clouds
counterparts play a painful case IV day
a mother Grace and the dead then I read
the short story of the oval mirror by
Edgar Allan Poe then I read a few short
stories by Neil Gaiman so I read the
case the four and twenty blackbirds
troll bridge don't ask jack how to sell
Ponty bridge October in the chair chair
boring the price how to talk to girls at
parties sunbird and yes whether Neil
Gaiman ones and that was from his
collection
M is for magic these ones are from
mystery and mayhem which was edited by
Katherine would find I believe so that's
Emily and the detectives by Susie de
rain on my parade by Alan cop
Pat a lot the mystery of the green room
by Clementine boudoir
the mystery of Diablo Canyon circle by
Caroline Laurence Mel foster in the
Hound of the Baskervilles by Julia
Goulding and dazzled dog biscuits and
disaster by Kate pencast
so then these ones are all from the
Cambridge companion to Victorian novel
so these are technically essays but I'm
including them anyway the Victorian
novel and its readers by Kate Flint
business of Victoria publishing right
Simon Eliot a statics of the Victorian
novel by Linda and hires industrial
culture and the Victorian novel by
Joseph W traders Jen during the
Victorian novel by Nancy Armstrong
sexuality and the Victorian novel by
Jeff noon ikawa rapes and the Victorian
level by Patrick
brant tumor detection in the Victorian
novel by Ronald our Thomas sensation and
the fantastic in the Victorian novel by
Lion pick at intellectual debate in the
Victorian novel by John Cusack
I think Dickens Melville and a tale of
two countries by Robert Wise bunch and
there's one other essay which I read
which was Dante in 17th century
literature and I didn't document who
this was by but that was basically just
talking about how Dante appears in 17th
century literature and I've read a few
other I've read other critical essays
obviously but I've just including
included them if they're a bit longer or
if they're not necessarily related to my
school specification because I read a
lot of academic essays online English
coursework so now I'm going to tell you
which were the best books that I read
this year and I think I've marked a
couple more than five I'm not sure maybe
about eight and I'm just gonna read
these ones to you and if you want me to
do a review or talk about these books in
any more depth then please let me know
so I really enjoyed We Need to Talk Like
Heaven which I don't think is that
surprising because it's been highly cake
critically acclaimed I think it won the
Man Booker in 2007 or 2006 it's well I'm
pretty sure that everyone pretty much
already knows what it's about but it's
about a boy who called Kevin who at the
age of 16 needs a school shooting which
kills a number of other students in the
cafeteria Walker and it's talking about
his childhood so a lot of it was from
his mother's point of view and it's that
whole nature vs. nurture debate oh that
Kevin's fault bit it was Kevin born like
this or is it a result of his upbringing
it's a fascinating read I also really
loved from Belson to Buckingham Palace
by Paul Oppenheimer and I took part in
the lesson from Auschwitz project which
is run across the UK one thing that we
got to do as part of the project was
listen to Rudy Oppenheimer and he gave
his testimony to us which was incredible
but basically Paul Oppenheimer is his
brother I already knew the story because
of the TAS to me that I'd heard from
Rudy however hearing his brothers point
of view was actually really interesting
sadly but it's also very
firing the next book that I really loved
was counting by sevens by Holly Goldberg
Sloane and um Willow in this is just
such a lovable character she's so
precocious and I really love books where
you learn things as you're going along
so it's fiction but you're learning
things because the characters keep on
FanDuel facts I also really loved
rethinking life and death by Peter
Singer it's him talking about specific
issues to do with life and death and why
the barrier lies so when if someone
actually dead also is abortion of our
case euthanasia over okay and it's just
a really interesting debate to think
about so the next book that I really
loved was the grasses singing by Doris
Lessing and this is set in South Africa
and it's exploring racism but it's
already interestingly because it takes a
character you'd expect to be nice and it
kind of twists them you and you get this
inverted image of them as a result of
the racism then I really loved positive
and memorable rule it's such an
inspiring story but it's it's terrible
so Paige was born hiv-positive and
nobody ever knew about it it wasn't
spread around but then when she was in
middle school she told her best friend
and word got around and she was terribly
bullied and these are her memoirs her
talking about what happened and I think
what's most inspiring is the fact that
she was able to use her experiences to
really spread awareness and it is just
incredible that things each of the
things that she went through and the
prejudice that she faced I think it's
something that you should read I've put
down cat's eyes on my favorites but
that's what it's actually because I
reread it
they capsized my favorite book of all
time so then the last book that I've
written down is on my favorites is
bullies like me by Linda's art oh my
goodness this book was incredible so I
love bullying books and this is probably
the best young adult bullying book I've
ever read actually just the best young
adult book period and it's not that
famous I bought it as an e-book but I've
never seen it in book shops before but I
loved it I have filmed a review of it
actually which I bought will be
uploading shortly so I document
everything
Goodreads and my Goodreads account is
Ruby grinder if you wanted to go and
follow me there please don't feel
obliged to but if you wanted to have a
look at my reviews or see what I'm
reading I do keep my Goodreads updated
so thank you so much for watching I hope
that you enjoyed and have a productive
week and today's random act of kindness
is to recommend a book to somebody